- [Instructor] So now that we've created some data
in our database,
we now need to look at how to actually read the data out.
But before we do that,
I want to talk a little bit about the construct
that you use to read data out of the database,
specifically the ResultSet.
Now we've seen this briefly earlier,
but we're going to talk a little bit more
about what it actually means.
Essentially, a ResultSet is a multi-dimensional array
or a table that returned from a database statement.
It also includes some metadata associated with the query
and where the cursor is,
as far as reading that table that comes out.
Now, there's very limited functionality on seeing the size
and scope of results.
You basically can go forward, and in some cases back,
or to a certain spot.
But you don't really have the full grasp of everything
that's in a ResultSet in most implementations.
For all intents and purposes and most use cases,
the ResultSet operates simply like an iterator
and you're just going to loop through the ResultSet
to get the data that you need.
Iterating over that ResultSet
is a very simple, repetitive operation,
which makes sense,
because each tuple in the table
looks the exact same as every other tuple,
other than the data present.
This isn't a no-sequel option
where you can have varied results.
Each result will always be the same.
Now, yes, you can have nulls in those columns,
but those nulls are still a data point
and it's a data point of nothing.
So the iteration is very simply a while command
on the resultset.next.
And then within that loop,
you unpack the structure and that's what we're going to do
when we get into the next video.
Now there's a couple ways to access values
from the ResultSet.
You can do it by column name and you can do it by index.
Now, one thing to mention here
is that when you do it by column name,
it's not necessarily the same as the table def.
It's the query definition of the column name that matters.
Now, there are several advanced operations and settings
that you can work on, on a ResultSet,
and they're outside the scope of this course.
But if you're really interested, you can read up on them.
So there's navigation based on type.
There's concurrency in whether that ResultSet is updatable.
And then there's the concept of holdability,
which means that that ResultSet will live
past commit or closing of the connection.
Again, these are advanced topics we're not going to get into,
but there's tons of information out on Oracle's website
and other Java-focused websites
where you can get the information as needed.